Welcome to the Swarm distribution. Full documentation should be found
in "swarmdocs-xxxxxx.tar.gz", in the same place as this distribution.
Documentation is also available on the Web at

  http://www.santafe.edu/projects/swarm/

Contents of this README ================================================

   I. Installation Process
      A. Full source compilation and installation
      B. Binary installation with accompanying source
  II. Installation Options and Settings

Questions about this release should be directed to
<swarm-support@santafe.edu> This is a mailing list for discussion of
Swarm and its usage.  For subscription info, send an email message to:
<majordomo@santafe.edu> with the word "help" in the body of the message.

Interesting files in this release:

- INSTALL, which contains instructions on building and installing Swarm.
- NEWS, which describes user-visible changes since the last release of Swarm.
- COPYING, which describes the terms under which you may redistribute
  Swarm, and explains that there is no warranty.   

I. Installation Process =================================================

      Full installation instructions are contained in `INSTALL' and
additional material is also contained in the Swarm documentation.

Basically, there are two options for the installation of Swarm: the
full source compilation and installation, and the binary installation
accompanied by a copy of the full source.

A. Full source compilation and installation 
-------------------------------------------
(a.k.a. the "archive" installation)

         The full source (a.k.a. "archive") compilation and
installation consists of 1) ensuring that you have available to you,
all the system/environment prerequisite software you need to use
Swarm, 2) getting Swarm, itself, and 3) getting the sample
applications that use Swarm.

         1. Prerequisite software:

All of the prerequisite software you will need is available on the
Swarm ftp site (ftp://ftp.santafe.edu/pub/swarm/needed-software).
These can be horrendously difficult to install; so your best bet is to
use your systems administrator.

         2. Compiling and installing Swarm, itself:

As of the Swarm 1.3 release, the compilation and installation of Swarm
is handled by the GNU `configure'.  This removes a large burden from
the user, as `configure' has smarts which automatically sets many
common options.

You first need to read the file `INSTALL' and determine the
appropriate options to give to the `configure' script (this is
analogous to what you needed to do when editing the INCDIR macros in
the obsolete `Makefile.conf' in earlier releases).  You then type
`make' as in earlier releases.

However, there is now an explicit "installation" step to install Swarm
-- `make install' so that binaries and libraries can be installed
cleanly to a specified location.

All these things are described in more detail in the `INSTALL' file.

         3. Compiling and running the example applications:

Retrieve the swarmapps-xx.yy.zz.tar.gz from the Swarm web page
or ftp site.  Untar this file somewhere appropriate (usually a
user's home directory, since each user will likely want to make
code changes to a given app and recompile).  Then change directory
(cd) to one of the example apps, like heatbugs and edit the Makefile,
changing the following line from:

SWARMHOME=../swarm

to the following format:

SWARMHOME=<path to where Swarm is installed>

For example, on my system the line looks like this:

SWARMHOME=/net/user/gepr/Swarm/swarm-1.3

if the system admin has installed Swarm it may be:

SWARMHOME=/usr/local/swarm-1.3

This points `make' to the Makefile.appl (in the case of applications)
or Makefile.lib (in the case of libraries) file in the directory in
which Swarm is installed and allows each application's own Makefile to
access all the parameters set there.  Then all you need do is run
"make".

Now, all you need do is type the name of the executable you just
compiled, prefixed by a `./'.  So if you are compiling heatbugs, you
would type `./heatbugs' so that your shell knows that you want to run
an executable found in the current directory.

B. Binary installation with accompanying source 
-----------------------------------------------

As we are moving to a new improved installation procedure, binary
installations are not available for the Swarm 1.3 release, we are
currently working on the new binary distribution installation
procedure and it will be out in the next release.

II. Installation Options and Settings =================================

The options that were formerly described here are now obsolete.
Details of how to configure your Swarm installation just so, are now
documented in the `INSTALL' file.


